README.md, before:


# vue-final-form

<!-- hide-on-docup-start -->

[![NPM version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/vue-final-form.svg?style=flat)](https://npmjs.com/package/vue-final-form) [![NPM downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/vue-final-form.svg?style=flat)](https://npmjs.com/package/vue-final-form) [![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/egoist/vue-final-form/tree/master.svg?style=shield)](https://circleci.com/gh/egoist/vue-final-form/tree/master)  [![donate](https://img.shields.io/badge/$-donate-ff69b4.svg?maxAge=2592000&style=flat)](https://github.com/egoist/donate) [![chat](https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-on%20discord-7289DA.svg?style=flat)](https://chat.egoist.moe)

<!-- hide-on-docup-stop -->

## Introduction

🏁 High performance subscription-based form state management for Vue.js.

## Install

```bash
yarn add final-form vue-final-form
```

## Usage

[![Edit example](https://codesandbox.io/static/img/play-codesandbox.svg)](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/egoist/vue-final-form/tree/master/example)

This library exports two components:

```js
import { FinalForm, FinalField } from 'vue-final-form'
```

The first component you'll need is the `FinalForm` component:

```vue
<FinalForm :submit="submit">
  <!-- ignore the children for now -->
</FinalForm>
```

The only required prop is `submit`, it defines how to submit the form data, maybe simply log it:

```js
function submit(values) {
  console.log(values)
}
```

The rendered output is:

```html
<div></div>
```

As you can see it does nothing for now, you need to feed it a `<form>`:

```vue
<FinalForm :submit="submit">
  <form slot-scope="props" @submit="props.handleSubmit">
    <!-- ignore the children for now -->
  </form>
</FinalForm>
```

Now it renders:

```html
<div><form></form></div>
```

Here it uses the [`scoped slots`](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/components.html#Scoped-Slots) feature from Vue.js (>=2.1.0), `props.handleSubmit` is the actual method  it will run to submit data.

Next let's define a form field with `<FinalField>` component:

```vue
<FinalForm :submit="submit">
  <form slot-scope="props" @submit="props.handleSubmit">
    <FinalField
      name="username"
      :validate="v => v ? null : 'this is required'">
      <div slot-scope="props">
        <input v-on="props.events" :name="props.name">
        <span v-if="props.meta.error && props.meta.touched">
          {{ props.meta.error }}
        </span>
      </div>
    </FinalField>
  </form>
</FinalForm>
```

Things got a bit more complex, but it's easy if you try to understand:

The only prop that is required by `FinalField` is `name`, it tells the field where to store the field data in the form state, here we stores it as `state.username`.

The `validate` prop is used to validate the field data, it could be a function that returns an error message or `null`, `undefined` when it's considered valid.

The data that `FinalField` passed to its children contains `props.events` which is required to be bound with the `input` element in order to properly track events. And `props.name` is  the `name` you gave `FinalField`, `props.meta` is some infomation about this field.

## API

### `<FinalForm>`

#### Props

##### submit

Type: `function`<br>
Default: `() => {}`

Here we allow `submit` to be optional since you may not need it when you just use `vue-final-form` as a form validation tool.

See [onSubmit](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#onsubmit-values-object-form-formapi-callback-errors-object--void--object--promiseobject--void).

##### validate

Type: `function` `Array<function>`

A whole-record validation function that takes all the values of the form and returns any validation errors.

See [validate](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#validate-values-object--object--promiseobject).

##### initialValues

Type: `object`

See [initialValues](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#initialvalues-object).

##### subscription

Type: `FormSubscription`<br>
Default: All

See [FormSubscription](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#formsubscription--string-boolean-).

#### Events

##### change

Params:

- `formState`: https://github.com/final-form/final-form#formstate

#### Scoped slot props

It basically exposes everything in [FormState](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#formstate) plus follwoings:

##### handleSubmit

Type: `function`

The function that you will invoke to submit the form data, you may use it as the `:submit` event handler on your `<form>`.

##### reset

Type: `function`

See [FormApi.reset](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#reset---void).

##### mutators

Type: `?{ [string]: Function }`

See [FormApi.mutators](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#mutators--string-function-).

##### batch

Type: `function`

See [FormApi.batch](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#batch-fn---void--void).

##### blur

Type: `function`

See [FormApi.blur](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#blur-name-string--void).

##### change

Type: `function`

See [FormApi.change](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#change-name-string-value-any--void).

##### focus

Type: `function`

See [FormApi.focus](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#focus-name-string--void)

##### initialize

Type: `function`

See [FormApi.initialize](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#initialize-values-object--void).

### `<FinalField>`

#### Props

##### name

Type: `string`<br>
Required: `true`

The name of this field.

See [name](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#name-string-1).

##### validate

Type: `function` `Array<function>`

A field-level validation function to validate a single field value. Returns an error if the value is not valid, or undefined if the value is valid.

See [validate](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#validate-value-any-allvalues-object--any).

##### subscription

Type: `FieldSubscription`<br>
Default: All

See [FieldSubcription](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#fieldsubscription--string-boolean-).

#### Events

##### change

Params:

- `fieldState`: https://github.com/final-form/final-form#fieldstate

#### Scoped slot props

It basically exposes [FieldState](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#fieldstate).

##### name

Type: `string`

The name of this field.

See [`FieldState.name`](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#name-string)

##### change

Type: `function`

See [`FieldState.change`](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#change-value-any--void)

##### value

Type: `any`.

The current value of this field. You should probably bind it to `:value` of `input` or `textarea` if you have set initial value for the field.

##### events

Type: `{ input: Function, focus: Function, blur: Function }`

Bind these event handlers to your `input` `textarea` element.

See [FieldState.change](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#change-value-any--void), [FieldState.focus](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#focus---void), [FieldState.blur](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#blur---void).

##### meta

Type: `object`

Everything in [FieldState](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#fieldstate) except for `blur` `change` `focus` `name`

## Contributing

1. Fork it!
2. Create your feature branch: `git checkout -b my-new-feature`
3. Commit your changes: `git commit -am 'Add some feature'`
4. Push to the branch: `git push origin my-new-feature`
5. Submit a pull request :D


## Author

**vue-final-form** © [EGOIST](https://github.com/egoist), Released under the [MIT](https://github.com/egoist/vue-final-form/blob/master/LICENSE) License.<br>
Authored and maintained by EGOIST with help from contributors ([list](https://github.com/egoist/vue-final-form/contributors)).

> [egoist.moe](https://egoist.moe) · GitHub [@EGOIST](https://github.com/egoist) · Twitter [@_egoistlily](https://twitter.com/_egoistlily)

Commit message:

Add change event handler to defer complex form model evaluation to v-model.

README.md, after:


# vue-final-form

<!-- hide-on-docup-start -->

[![NPM version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/vue-final-form.svg?style=flat)](https://npmjs.com/package/vue-final-form) [![NPM downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/vue-final-form.svg?style=flat)](https://npmjs.com/package/vue-final-form) [![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/egoist/vue-final-form/tree/master.svg?style=shield)](https://circleci.com/gh/egoist/vue-final-form/tree/master)  [![donate](https://img.shields.io/badge/$-donate-ff69b4.svg?maxAge=2592000&style=flat)](https://github.com/egoist/donate) [![chat](https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-on%20discord-7289DA.svg?style=flat)](https://chat.egoist.moe)

<!-- hide-on-docup-stop -->

## Introduction

🏁 High performance subscription-based form state management for Vue.js.

## Install

```bash
yarn add final-form vue-final-form
```

## Usage

[![Edit example](https://codesandbox.io/static/img/play-codesandbox.svg)](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/egoist/vue-final-form/tree/master/example)

This library exports two components:

```js
import { FinalForm, FinalField } from 'vue-final-form'
```

The first component you'll need is the `FinalForm` component:

```vue
<FinalForm :submit="submit">
  <!-- ignore the children for now -->
</FinalForm>
```

The only required prop is `submit`, it defines how to submit the form data, maybe simply log it:

```js
function submit(values) {
  console.log(values)
}
```

The rendered output is:

```html
<div></div>
```

As you can see it does nothing for now, you need to feed it a `<form>`:

```vue
<FinalForm :submit="submit">
  <form slot-scope="props" @submit="props.handleSubmit">
    <!-- ignore the children for now -->
  </form>
</FinalForm>
```

Now it renders:

```html
<div><form></form></div>
```

Here it uses the [`scoped slots`](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/components.html#Scoped-Slots) feature from Vue.js (>=2.1.0), `props.handleSubmit` is the actual method  it will run to submit data.

Next let's define a form field with `<FinalField>` component:

```vue
<FinalForm :submit="submit">
  <form slot-scope="props" @submit="props.handleSubmit">
    <FinalField
      name="username"
      :validate="v => v ? null : 'this is required'">
      <div slot-scope="props">
        <input v-on="props.events" :name="props.name">
        <span v-if="props.meta.error && props.meta.touched">
          {{ props.meta.error }}
        </span>
      </div>
    </FinalField>
  </form>
</FinalForm>
```

Things got a bit more complex, but it's easy if you try to understand:

The only prop that is required by `FinalField` is `name`, it tells the field where to store the field data in the form state, here we stores it as `state.username`.

The `validate` prop is used to validate the field data, it could be a function that returns an error message or `null`, `undefined` when it's considered valid.

The data that `FinalField` passed to its children contains `props.events` which is required to be bound with the `input` element in order to properly track events. And `props.name` is  the `name` you gave `FinalField`, `props.meta` is some infomation about this field.

## API

### `<FinalForm>`

#### Props

##### submit

Type: `function`<br>
Default: `() => {}`

Here we allow `submit` to be optional since you may not need it when you just use `vue-final-form` as a form validation tool.

See [onSubmit](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#onsubmit-values-object-form-formapi-callback-errors-object--void--object--promiseobject--void).

##### validate

Type: `function` `Array<function>`

A whole-record validation function that takes all the values of the form and returns any validation errors.

See [validate](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#validate-values-object--object--promiseobject).

##### initialValues

Type: `object`

See [initialValues](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#initialvalues-object).

##### subscription

Type: `FormSubscription`<br>
Default: All

See [FormSubscription](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#formsubscription--string-boolean-).

#### Events

##### change

Params:

- `formState`: https://github.com/final-form/final-form#formstate

#### Scoped slot props

It basically exposes everything in [FormState](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#formstate) plus follwoings:

##### handleSubmit

Type: `function`

The function that you will invoke to submit the form data, you may use it as the `:submit` event handler on your `<form>`.

##### reset

Type: `function`

See [FormApi.reset](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#reset---void).

##### mutators

Type: `?{ [string]: Function }`

See [FormApi.mutators](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#mutators--string-function-).

##### batch

Type: `function`

See [FormApi.batch](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#batch-fn---void--void).

##### blur

Type: `function`

See [FormApi.blur](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#blur-name-string--void).

##### change

Type: `function`

See [FormApi.change](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#change-name-string-value-any--void).

##### focus

Type: `function`

See [FormApi.focus](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#focus-name-string--void)

##### initialize

Type: `function`

See [FormApi.initialize](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#initialize-values-object--void).

### `<FinalField>`

#### Props

##### name

Type: `string`<br>
Required: `true`

The name of this field.

See [name](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#name-string-1).

##### validate

Type: `function` `Array<function>`

A field-level validation function to validate a single field value. Returns an error if the value is not valid, or undefined if the value is valid.

See [validate](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#validate-value-any-allvalues-object--any).

##### subscription

Type: `FieldSubscription`<br>
Default: All

See [FieldSubcription](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#fieldsubscription--string-boolean-).

#### Events

##### change

Params:

- `fieldState`: https://github.com/final-form/final-form#fieldstate

#### Scoped slot props

It basically exposes [FieldState](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#fieldstate).

##### name

Type: `string`

The name of this field.

See [`FieldState.name`](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#name-string)

##### change

Type: `function`

See [`FieldState.change`](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#change-value-any--void)

##### value

Type: `any`.

The current value of this field. You should probably bind it to `:value` of `input` or `textarea` if you have set initial value for the field.

##### events

Type: `{ change: Function, input: Function, focus: Function, blur: Function }`

Bind these event handlers to your `input`, `textarea`, or `select` element.

Note: change is used for special complex elements (input[type="checkbox"] and select[multiple]). We defer to Vue to handle the model evaluation in these cases, so v-model must be bound to the props.value from the scoped slot.

See [FieldState.change](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#change-value-any--void), [FieldState.focus](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#focus---void), [FieldState.blur](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#blur---void).

##### meta

Type: `object`

Everything in [FieldState](https://github.com/final-form/final-form#fieldstate) except for `blur` `change` `focus` `name`

## Contributing

1. Fork it!
2. Create your feature branch: `git checkout -b my-new-feature`
3. Commit your changes: `git commit -am 'Add some feature'`
4. Push to the branch: `git push origin my-new-feature`
5. Submit a pull request :D


## Author

**vue-final-form** © [EGOIST](https://github.com/egoist), Released under the [MIT](https://github.com/egoist/vue-final-form/blob/master/LICENSE) License.<br>
Authored and maintained by EGOIST with help from contributors ([list](https://github.com/egoist/vue-final-form/contributors)).

> [egoist.moe](https://egoist.moe) · GitHub [@EGOIST](https://github.com/egoist) · Twitter [@_egoistlily](https://twitter.com/_egoistlily)
